PMID - 24000983
Title - A novel technique for image-guided local heart irradiation in the rat.

In radiotherapy treatment of thoracic, breast and chest wall tumors, the heartmay be included (partially or fully) in the radiation field. As a result,patients may develop radiation-induced heart disease (RIHD) several years afterexposure to radiation. There are few methods available to prevent or reverse RIHDand the biological mechanisms remain poorly understood. In order to further studythe effects of radiation on the heart, we developed a model of local heartirradiation in rats using an image-guided small animal conformal radiationtherapy device (SACRTD) developed at our institution. First, Monte Carlo basedsimulations were used to design an appropriate collimator. EBT-2 films were used to measure relative dosimetry, and the absolute dose rate at the isocenter wasmeasured using the AAPM protocol TG-61. The hearts of adult male Sprague-Dawleyrats were irradiated with a total dose of 21 Gy. For this purpose, rats wereanesthetized with isoflurane and placed in a custom-made vertical rat holder.Each heart was irradiated with a 3-beam technique (one AP field and 2 lateralfields), with each beam delivering 7 Gy. For each field, the heart was visualizedwith a digital flat panel X-ray imager and placed at the isocenter of the 1.8 cm diameter beam. In biological analysis of radiation exposure, immunohistochemistryshowed γH2Ax foci and nitrotyrosine throughout the irradiated hearts but not inthe lungs. Long-term follow-up of animals revealed histopathologicalmanifestations of RIHD, including myocardial degeneration and fibrosis. Theresults demonstrate that the rat heart irradiation technique using the SACRTD wassuccessful and that surrounding untargeted tissues were spared, making thisapproach a powerful tool for in vivo radiobiological studies of RIHD. Functional and structural changes in the rat heart after local irradiation are ongoing.


PMID - 25011731
Title - Adaption of cardio-respiratory balance during day-rest compared to deep sleep-An indicator for quality of life?

Heart rate and breathing rate fluctuations represent interacting physiologicaloscillations. These interactions are commonly studied using respiratory sinusarrhythmia (RSA) of heart rate variability (HRV) or analyzing cardiorespiratorysynchronization. Earlier work has focused on a third type of relationship, thetemporal ratio of respiration rate and heart rate (HRR). Each method seems toreveal a specific aspect of cardiorespiratory interaction and may be suitable forassessing states of arousal and relaxation of the organism. We used HRR in astudy with 87 healthy subjects to determine the ability to relax during 5day-resting periods in comparison to deep sleep relaxation. The degree to which aperson during waking state could relax was compared to somatic complaints,health-related quality of life, anxiety and depression. Our results show, thatHRR is barely connected to balance (LF/HF) in HRV, but significantly correlatesto the perception of general health and mental well-being as well as todepression. If relaxation, as expressed in HRR, during day-resting is near todeep sleep relaxation, the subjects felt healthier, indicated better mentalwell-being and less depressive moods.


PMID - 24980679
Title - Comparing the physiological and perceptual responses of construction workers (barbenders and bar fixers) in a hot environment.

This study aimed to (1) quantify the respective physical workloads of bar bendingand fixing; and (2) compare the physiological and perceptual responses betweenbar benders and bar fixers. Field studies were conducted during the summer inHong Kong from July 2011 to August 2011 over six construction sites. Synchronizedphysiological, perceptual, and environmental parameters were measured fromconstruction rebar workers. The average duration of the 39 field measurements was151.1 ± 22.4 min under hot environment (WBGT = 31.4 ± 2.2 °C), during whichphysiological, perceptual and environmental parameters were synchronized. Energy expenditure of overall rebar work, bar bending, and bar fixing were 2.57, 2.26and 2.67 Kcal/min (179, 158 and 186 W), respectively. Bar fixing inducedsignificantly higher physiological responses in heart rate (113.6 vs.102.3 beat/min, p < 0.05), oxygen consumption (9.53 vs. 7.14 ml/min/kg,p < 0.05), and energy expenditure (2.67 vs. 2.26 Kcal/min, p < 0.05) (186 vs.158 W, p < 0.05) as compared to bar bending. Perceptual response was higher inbar fixing but such difference was not statistically significant. Findings ofthis study enable the calculation of daily energy expenditure of rebar work.


PMID - 24816137
Title - The effect of pre-warming on performance during simulated firefighting exercise.

This study examined the effect of active pre-warming on speed and quality ofperformance during simulated firefighting exercise. Twelve male firefightersperformed two trials in counterbalanced order. They were either pre-warmed by20-min cycling at 1.5 Watt kg(-)(1) body mass (WARM) or remained thermoneutral(CON) prior to a simulated firefighting activity. After the pre-warming,gastrointestinal temperature (P < 0.001), skin temperature (P = 0.002), and heartrate (P < 0.001) were higher in WARM than in CON. During the firefightingactivity, rating of perceived exertion, thermal sensation and discomfort werehigher for WARM than for CON. Finish time of the firefighting activity wassimilar, but the last task of the activity was completed slower in WARM than inCON (P = 0.04). In WARM, self-reported performance quality was lower than in CON (P = 0.04). It is concluded that pre-warming reduces the speed during the lastpart of simulated firefighting activity and reduces self-reported quality ofperformance.


PMID - 24798511
Title - Evaluation of two cooling systems under a firefighter coverall.

Firemen often suffer from heat strain. This study investigated two chest cooling systems for use under a firefighting suit. In nine male subjects, a vest withwater soaked cooling pads and a vest with water perfused tubes were compared to acontrol condition. Subjects performed 30 min walking and 10 min recovery in hotconditions, while physiological and perceptual parameters were measured. Nodifferences were observed in heart rate and rectal temperature, but scapular skintemperature and fluid loss were lower using the perfused vest. Thermal sensation was cooler for the perfused vest than for the other conditions, while the coolpad vest felt initially cooler than control. However, comfort and RPE scores weresimilar. We conclude that the cooling effect of both tested systems, mainlyproviding a (temporally) cooler thermal sensation, was limited and did not meetthe expectations.


PMID - 24793823
Title - Estimating oxygen consumption from heart rate using adaptive neuro-fuzzyinference system and analytical approaches.

In new approaches based on adaptive neuro-fuzzy systems (ANFIS) and analyticalmethod, heart rate (HR) measurements were used to estimate oxygen consumption(VO2). Thirty-five participants performed Meyer and Flenghi's step-test (eight ofwhich performed regeneration release work), during which heart rate and oxygenconsumption were measured. Two individualized models and a General ANFIS modelthat does not require individual calibration were developed. Results indicatedthe superior precision achieved with individualized ANFIS modelling (RMSE = 1.0and 2.8 ml/kg min in laboratory and field, respectively). The analytical modeloutperformed the traditional linear calibration and Flex-HR methods with fielddata. The General ANFIS model's estimates of VO2 were not significantly differentfrom actual field VO2 measurements (RMSE = 3.5 ml/kg min). With its ease of useand low implementation cost, the General ANFIS model shows potential to replaceany of the traditional individualized methods for VO2 estimation from HR datacollected in the field.


PMID - 25093805
Title - Ablation of the GNB3 gene in mice does not affect body weight, metabolism orblood pressure, but causes bradycardia.

G protein β3 (Gβ3) is an isoform of heterotrimeric G protein β subunits involved in transducing G protein coupled receptor (GPCR) signaling. Polymorphisms in Gβ3 (GNB3) are associated with many human disorders (e.g. hypertension, diabetes and obesity) but the role of GNB3 in these pathogeneses remains unclear. Here,Gβ3-null mice (GNB3(-/-)) were characterized to determine how Gβ3 functions toregulate blood pressure, body weight and metabolism. We found Gβ3 expressionrestricted to limited types of tissues, including the retina, several regions of the brain and heart ventricles. Gβ3-deficient mice were normal as judged by body weight gain by age or by feeding with high-fat diet (HFD); glucose tolerance and insulin sensitivity; baseline blood pressure and angiotensin II infusion-induced hypertension. During tail-cuff blood pressure measurements, however, Gβ3-nullmice had slower heart rates (~450 vs ~500beats/min). This bradycardia was notobserved in isolated and perfused Gβ3-null mouse hearts. Moreover, mouse heartsisolated from GNB3(-/-) and controls responded equivalently to muscarinicreceptor- and β-adrenergic receptor-stimulated bradycardia and tachycardia,respectively. Since no difference was seen in isolated hearts, Gβ3 is unlikely tobe involved directly in the GPCR signaling activity that controls heart pacemakeractivity. These results demonstrate that although Gβ3 appears dispensable in micefor the regulation of blood pressure, body weight and metabolic featuresassociated with obesity and diabetes, Gβ3 may regulate heart rate.


PMID - 25086737
Title - Physical fitness and overweight in Israeli children with and withoutdevelopmental coordination disorder: Gender differences.

Physical fitness and overweight among children has become paramount in thegeneral population and more so in children with developmental coordinationdisorder (DCD). The purpose of the current study was to examine the associationbetween physical fitness and overweight in a sample of Israeli children incomparison to typical children, and to examine gender differences. DCD wasidentified through total scores on the movement assessment battery for children 2(MABC-2) equal to or less than the 16th percentile as well as parents' reportthat the child's deficits in motor skills interfered with at least two daily lifeactivities. The sample included a group of children with DCD (n=22, M age=8.70[SD=1.36], 16 boys [73%]) and a control group of typical children (n=47, Mage=8.90 [SD=1.52], 34 boys [72%]). Measures included the strength subtest of theBruininks-Oseretsky test of motor proficiency (BOT-2), the six minutes' walk test(6MWT) with heart rate measure, BMI and the percentage of body fat. Significantdifferences between DCD and typical children were found on all variables ofphysical fitness and weight. A two-way analysis of variance (ANOVA) analysis(group/gender) also revealed significant interactions for the percentage of body fat (F=8.51, p<.005) and BMI (F=4.50, p<.038) meaning that less fit children are more obese. The current study supports previous findings that children with DCDare less physically fit and more overweight compared to typically developingchildren. Moreover, in comparing between the genders, the girls in the studysample weighed more and had a significantly higher percentage of body fat thanboys, it is essential to further our understanding of the relationships betweenobesity, physical fitness and gender among children with and without DCD.


PMID - 24889355
Title - Latent time-varying factors in longitudinal analysis: a linear mixed hiddenMarkov model for heart rates.

Longitudinal data are often segmented by unobserved time-varying factors, whichintroduce latent heterogeneity at the observation level, in addition toheterogeneity across subjects. We account for this latent structure by a linearmixed hidden Markov model. It integrates subject-specific random effects andMarkovian sequences of time-varying effects in the linear predictor. We proposean expectationŰ-maximization algorithm for maximum likelihood estimation, basedon data augmentation. It reduces to the iterative maximization of the expectedvalue of a complete likelihood function, derived from an augmented dataset withcase weights, alternated with weights updating. In a case study of the Survey on Stress Aging and Health in Russia, the model is exploited to estimate theinfluence of the observed covariates under unobserved time-varying factors, whichaffect the cardiovascular activity of each subject during the observation period.Copyright © 2014 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.


PMID - 25072873
Title - Discovery of oxazole and triazole derivatives as potent and selective S1P1agonists through pharmacophore-guided design.

We have discovered a series of triazole/oxazole-containing 2-substituted2-aminopropane-1,3-diol derivatives as potent and selective S1P1 agonists(prodrugs) based on pharmacophore-guided rational design. Most compounds showedhigh affinity and selectivity for S1P1 receptor. Compounds 19b, 19d and 19pdisplayed clear dose responsiveness in the lymphocyte reduction model whenadministered orally at doses of 0.3, 1.0, 3.0 mg/kg with reduced effect on heart rate. These three compounds were also identified to have favorablepharmacokinetic properties.


PMID - 25148910
Title - Exercise training enhanced SIRT1 longevity signaling replaces the IGF1 survivalpathway to attenuate aging-induced rat heart apoptosis.

Cardiovascular disease is the second leading cause of death (9.1 %) in Taiwan.Heart function deteriorates with age at a rate of 1 % per year. As society ages, we must study the serious problem of cardiovascular disease. SIRT1 regulatesimportant cellular processes, including anti-apoptosis, neuronal protection,cellular senescence, aging, and longevity. In our previous studies, rats withobesity, high blood pressure, and diabetes exhibiting slowed myocardialperformance and induced cell apoptosis were reversed via sports training through IGF1 survival signaling compensation. This study designed a set of experimentswith rats, in aging and exercise groups, to identify changes in myocardial cellsignaling transduction pathways. Three groups of three different aged rats, 3,12, and 18 months old, were randomly divided into aging groups (C3, A12, and A18)and exercise groups (E3, AE12, and AE18). The exercise training consisted ofswimming five times a week with gradual increases from the first week from 20 to 60 min for 12 weeks. After the sports training process was completed, tissuesections were taken to observe cell organization (hematoxylin and eosin (H&E)stain) and apoptosis (terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase dUTP nick endlabeling (TUNEL) assays) and to observe any changes in the myocardial tissues andproteins (Western blotting). The experimental results show that cardiomyocyteapoptotic pathway protein expression increased with age in the aging groups (C3, A12, and A18), with improvement in the exercise group (E3, AE12, and AE18).However, the expression of the pro-survival p-Akt protein decreased significantlywith age and reduced performance. The IGF1R/PI3K/Akt survival pathway in theheart of young rats can indeed be increased through exercise training. As ratsage, this pathway loses its original function, even with increasing upstreamIGF1. However, levels of SIRT1 and its downstream target PGC-1α were found toincrease with age and compensatory performance. Moreover, exercise trainingenhanced the SIRT longevity pathway compensation instead of IGF1 survivalsignaling to improve cardiomyocyte survival.


PMID - 25159237
Title - Effect of Peripheral Vascular Disease on Mortality in Cardiac TransplantRecipients (from the United Network of Organ Sharing Database).

Peripheral vascular disease (PVD) portends increased morbidity and mortality inpatients with heart failure. In those with advanced heart failure, hearttransplantation (HT) is the only causative therapy to increase survival. However,little is known about the impact of symptomatic PVD on survival of HT recipients in large multicenter cohorts. The aim of this study was to investigate anassociation between recipient symptomatic PVD and survival after HT. We analyzed 20,297 patients from the United Network of Organ Sharing data set. Survivalanalysis using a control cohort established by propensity matching was performed.There was an increased prevalence of traditional cardiovascular risk factors in711 patients with symptomatic PVD compared with 19,586 patients without PVD.Patients with pretransplant symptomatic PVD had increased post-transplantmortality compared with those without PVD (1-, 5- and 10-year survival rate 91.5%vs 94.9%, 74.8% vs 82.6%, 48.6% vs 54.7%, respectively, log-rank p <0.001). Onmultivariate analysis based on the propensity matching, factors associated with alower survival rate were presence of PVD (hazard ratio 1.20, 95% confidentialinterval 1.02 to 1.42, p = 0.030), and female gender (hazard ratio 1.22, 95%confidence interval 1.02 to 1.47, p = 0.034). In conclusion, patients withsymptomatic PVD have a lower survival rate after HT. Symptomatic PVD should beconsidered an independent risk factor for poor prognosis in patients undergoingHT evaluation.


PMID - 25132330
Title - Comparison of Hemodynamic Performance of the Balloon-Expandable SAPIEN 3 VersusSAPIEN XT Transcatheter Valve.

The SAPIEN 3 valve (S3V) is a new-generation transcatheter valve with enhancedanti-paravalvular leak properties, but no data comparing with earliertranscatheter valve systems are available. We aimed to compare the hemodynamicperformance of the S3V and the SAPIEN XT valve (SXTV) in a case-matched studywith echo core laboratory analysis. A total of 27 patients who underwenttranscatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR) with the S3V were matched forprosthesis size (26 mm), aortic annulus area, and mean diameter measured bycomputed tomography, left ventricular ejection fraction, body surface area, andbody mass index with 50 patients treated with the SXTV. The prosthesis size wasdetermined by oversizing of 1% to 15% of annulus area. Doppler echocardiographic images collected at baseline and 1-month follow-up were analyzed in a centralechocardiography core laboratory. The need for postdilation was higher in theSXTV group (20% vs 4%, p = 0.047), and mean residual gradient and effectiveorifice area were similar in both groups (p >0.05). The incidence of paravalvularaortic regurgitation was greater with the SXTV (≥mild: 42%, moderate: 8%) thanwith the S3V (≥mild: 7%, moderate: 0%; p = 0.002 for ≥mild vs SXTV). Theimplantation of an S3V was the only factor associated with trace or noparavalvular leak after TAVR (p = 0.007). In conclusion, TAVR with the S3V wasassociated with a very low rate of paravalvular leaks and need for balloonpostdilation, much lower than that observed with the earlier generation ofballoon-expandable valve (SXTV). The confirmation of these results in a largercohort of patients will represent a major step forward in using transcathetervalves for the treatment of aortic stenosis.


PMID - 25118119
Title - Comparison of the Efficacy of Pharmacoinvasive Management for ST-SegmentElevation Myocardial Infarction in Smokers Versus Non-Smokers (from the Trial of Routine Angioplasty and Stenting After Fibrinolysis to Enhance Reperfusion inAcute Myocardial Infarction).

Compared with non-smokers, cigarette smokers with ST-segment elevation myocardialinfarctions derive greater benefit from fibrinolytic therapy. However, it is not known whether the optimal treatment strategy after fibrinolysis differs on thebasis of smoking status. The Trial of Routine Angioplasty and Stenting AfterFibrinolysis to Enhance Reperfusion in Acute Myocardial Infarction (TRANSFER-AMI)randomized patients with ST-segment elevation myocardial infarctions to a routineearly invasive (pharmacoinvasive) versus a standard (early transfer only forrescue percutaneous coronary intervention or delayed angiography) strategy after fibrinolysis. The efficacy of these strategies was compared in 1,051 patients on the basis of their smoking status. Treatment heterogeneity was assessed betweensmokers and non-smokers, and multivariable analysis was performed to evaluate foran interaction between smoking status and treatment strategy after adjusting for baseline Global Registry of Acute Coronary Events (GRACE) risk score. Smokers(n = 448) were younger, had fewer cardiovascular risk factors, and had lowerGRACE risk scores. They had a lower rate of the primary composite end point of30-day mortality, reinfarction, recurrent ischemia, heart failure, or cardiogenicshock and fewer deaths or reinfarctions at 6 months and 1 year. Smoking statuswas not a significant predictor of either primary or secondary end points inmultivariable analysis. Pharmacoinvasive management reduced the primary end pointcompared with standard therapy in smokers (7.7% vs 13.6%, p = 0.04) andnon-smokers (13.1% vs 19.7%, p = 0.03). Smoking status did not modify treatmenteffect on any measured outcomes (p >0.10 for all). In conclusion, compared withnon-smokers, current smokers receiving either standard or early invasivemanagement of ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction after fibrinolysis have more favorable outcomes, which is likely attributable to their better baselinerisk profile. The beneficial treatment effect of a pharmacoinvasive strategy isconsistent in smokers and non-smokers.


PMID - 23873875
Title - Evaluation of myocardial function in patients with rheumatoid arthritis usingstrain imaging by speckle-tracking echocardiography.

OBJECTIVES: Patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) are at increased risk forcardiovascular disease (CVD), although strategies to detect subclinical CVD arepoorly characterised. The purpose of this study was to assess myocardial functionby speckle-tracking echocardiography strain imaging in patients with RA withoutknown CVD.METHODS: Eighty-seven patients with RA selected from a population-based sampleunderwent echocardiography. Left ventricular (LV) and right ventricular (RV)longitudinal peak systolic strain were measured. A subset of 59 patients with RA was compared with 59 age-, gender- and race-matched subjects with normalechocardiography and no CVD or risk factors.RESULTS: The mean ± SD age of the patients with RA and the normal patients was55.7±12.1 and 54.5±12.2 years (p=0.42), respectively, with 45 (76%) women in eachgroup. Global LV strain (-15.7±3.2% vs -18.1±2.4%, p<0.001) and RV strain(-17.9±4.7% vs -20.7±2.4%, p<0.001) was reduced in patients with RA compared withnormal patients. Among all 87 patients with RA the mean disease duration andC-reactive protein at echocardiography were 10.0±6.1 years and 3.5±3.7 mg/L, and 74% were seropositive. Adjusted univariate regression analysis demonstrated asignificant correlation between global LV strain and RA Health AssessmentQuestionnaire disability index (p=0.032), and borderline associations with prior use of oral corticosteroids (p=0.062) and methotrexate (p=0.054) after adjustmentfor age, gender, blood pressure, body mass index, heart rate and LV mass index.CONCLUSIONS: Global longitudinal LV and RV strain is reduced in patients with RA compared with healthy patients. Strain abnormalities correlate with RA diseaseseverity. Strain imaging by echocardiography may detect early myocardialdysfunction in RA.


PMID - 24798932
Title - Does minor trauma in pregnancy affect perinatal outcome?

PURPOSE: To investigate pregnancy outcome after minor trauma and to identify riskfactors at admission that may predict adverse pregnancy outcome.METHODS: A retrospective study held between January-2005 and December-2011.Pregnant women at 23 weeks or more, who were admitted due to minor trauma, wereincluded. A standard protocol was applied: physical examination, lab tests and a fetal heart rate monitoring (FHRM) and tocometer for 1 h. In cases of symptomaticwomen, abnormal FHRM or presence of uterine contractions, the length ofmonitoring was extended. All women were admitted for 24 h of observation. Theprimary outcome was a composite adverse outcome that included at least one of thefollowing: placental abruption, preterm birth and birthweight <2,500 g. Toinvestigate pregnancy outcome and identify risk factors that may predictpregnancy outcome, matched (1:2) non-trauma controls were included. Risk factors examined included maternal obstetric variables, complaints at admission, clinicalfindings, lab test results, FHRM and tocometer findings.RESULTS: A total of 512 women with minor trauma and 1,024 non-trauma controlswere included. Composite outcome occurred in 48 (9.4 %) and 131 (12.9 %) of thestudy and the control groups, respectively (p = 0.04; OR 0.71; 95 % CI,0.5-0.99). None of the parameters examined at admission predicted the occurrence of the composite outcome.CONCLUSION: Pregnant women after minor trauma have a favorable pregnancy outcome.None of the parameters examined at admission were predictive of adverse outcome. Extensive evaluation at admission and observation for 24 h are probablyunnecessary following minor trauma, particularly for asymptomatic women.


PMID - 25079341
Title - Factors influencing the role of cardiac autonomic regulation in the service ofcognitive control.

Working from a model of neurovisceral integration, we examined whether addingresponse contingencies and motivational involvement would increase the need forcardiac autonomic regulation in maintaining effective cognitive control.Respiratory sinus arrhythmia (RSA) was recorded during variants of the Stroopcolor-word task. The Basic task involved "accepting" congruent items and"rejecting" words printed in incongruent colors (BLUE in red font); an addedcontingency involved rejecting a particular congruent word (e.g., RED in redfont), or a congruent word repeated on an immediately subsequent trial.Motivation was increased by adding a financial incentive phase. Results indicate that pre-task RSA predicted accuracy best when response contingencies requiredthe maintenance of a specific item in memory or on the Basic Stroop task whenerrors resulted in financial loss. Overall, RSA appeared to be most relevant toperformance when the task encouraged a more proactive style of cognitive control,a control strategy thought to be more metabolically costly, and hence, morereliant on flexible cardiac autonomic regulation.


PMID - 25058195
Title - The interaction between anxiety and depressive symptoms on brachial arteryreactivity in cardiac patients.

The association between anxiety, depression, and endothelial function (EF) wasassessed in a sample of 295 cardiac outpatients (n=222 men; mean age=59).Patients were administered the Beck Depression Inventory-II and the State-TraitAnxiety Inventory, trait scale. EF was assessed through forearm hyperemicreactivity, a nuclear medicine variation of the flow-mediated dilatationtechnique, which calculates the rate of uptake ratio (RUR) between hyperaemic andnon-hyperaemic arms. Neither effect of anxiety (F=1.40, p=.24) nor depression(F=2.66, p=.10) was found in a model predicting EF, however there was aninteraction (F=4.11, p=.04). Higher anxiety and lower depressive symptoms wereassociated with superior RUR compared to lower anxiety and lower depressivesymptoms. Anxiety had no influence on RUR in those patients with higherdepressive symptoms, who generally displayed the lowest levels of RUR, i.e., poorfunction. It is speculative whether this potential protective role of anxiety maybe guided by behavioral or physiological mechanisms.


PMID - 25038303
Title - Rated and measured impulsivity in children is associated with diminished cardiac reactions to acute psychological stress.

This study examined the association between impulsivity and heart rate reactions to a brief psychological stress in pre-adolescent children. Impulsivity wasassessed by two response inhibition tasks and maternal self-report. Heart ratewas measured at rest and in response to a mental arithmetic challenge. Childrenhigh in impulsivity showed blunted cardiac stress reactions. This resultresonates with previous findings that blunted stress reactivity is characteristicof a range of problematic behaviours often associated with impulsivity.


PMID - 24906047
Title - High-normal blood pressure, functional capacity and left heart mechanics: Isthere any connection?

Abstract Objective. To evaluate the relationship between functional capacity and left ventricular (LV) and left atrial (LA) myocardial deformation, assessed bytwo- and three-dimensional (2DE and 3DE) strain analysis, in subjects withhigh-normal blood pressure (BP). Methods. This cross-sectional study included 64 subjects with optimal BP and 75 subjects with high-normal BP of similar genderand age. All the subjects underwent a complete 2DE and 3DE examination andcardiopulmonary exercise testing. Results. 3DE global longitudinal strain wassignificantly lower in the group with high-normal BP than in the optimal BP group(- 20.1 ± 2.4 vs - 18.5 ± 2.3%, p < 0.001). Similar results were obtained for 3DEglobal circumferential strain (- 21.8 ± 2.6 vs - 19.3 ± 2.4%, p < 0.001), as wellas for 3DE global radial strain (45.1 ± 8.8 vs 42.3 ± 7.2%, p = 0.042), and 3DEglobal area strain (- 30.1 ± 4.2 vs - 28.1 ± 3.8%, p < 0.001). LV twist wassimilar between the observed groups, whereas untwisting rate was significantlydecreased in the subjects with high-normal BP (- 123 ± 30 vs - 112 ± 26°/s, p =0.023). Peak VO2 was significantly lower in the high-normal BP group (30.8 ± 4 vs28.3 ± 3.7 ml/kg/min, p < 0.001). 2DE LV ejection fraction (β = 0.38, p = 0.014),2DE global longitudinal strain (β = 0.35, p = 0.019) and 3DE global longitudinal strain (β = 0.27, p = 0.042) were independently associated with peak VO2.Conclusion. LV and LA mechanics, as well as functional capacity are significantlyimpaired in the subjects with high-normal BP. LV and LA myocardial deformationsare associated with peak oxygen uptake.


